
-------------------------------------------------------------  CSS Assignments     ---------------------------------------------------------


1. What are the benefits of using CSS?
➢ CSS handles the look and feel part of a web page.
➢ Using CSS, you can control the color of the text, the style of fonts, the
spacing between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out, etc.
➢ CSS saves time − You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in
multiple HTML pages.



2. What are the disadvantages of CSS?
➢ CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among web browsers.
➢ With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with
another. The web developers need to test for compatibility, running the
program across multiple browsers.
➢ After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they
appear. The similar change affects on all the browsers.



3. What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
➢ Unlike CSS2, which was comprised of a single document, CSS3 has its
specifications divided into many individual modules, which makes CSS3 a
whole lot easier to handle.
➢ With CSS3, the designers can now use special fonts, like those available in
Google Fonts and Typecast.



4. Name a few CSS style components.
➢ The components of css style are:
➢ Selector: HTML element name, id name, class name.
➢ Property: It’s like an attribute such as background color, font-size, position,
text-align, color, border etc.
➢ Values: which defines property or values allocate for properties.



5. What do you understand by CSS opacity?
➢ It specifies the transparency of an element. You can take value from 0.0 to
1.0.

6. How can the background color of an element be changed?
➢ The background-color property sets the background color of an element.
➢ The background of an element is the total size of the element, including
padding and border (but not the margin).



7. How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
➢ To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the
background-repeat property.
➢ You can use no-repeat value for the background-repeat property if you do
not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.



8. What is the use of the background-position property?
➢ The background-position property sets the starting position of a
background image.
body {
background-position: center;
}



9. Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
➢ Background attachment property controls the image scroll in the
background.



10. Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
➢ Because it enhances the legibility of style sheets.
➢ The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined
with color, the complexity will further increase.



11. How to center block elements using CSS1?
➢ To horizontally center a block element (like <div>), use margin: auto;
Setting the width of the element will prevent it from stretching out to the
edges of its container.



12. How to maintain the CSS specifications?
➢ Using CSS, you can control the color of the text, the style of fonts, the spacing
between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out
<html>
<style>
body {
background-color: red;
}
</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1>The background-color Property</h1>
<p>The background color can be specified with a color name.</p>
</body>
</html>

➢ The Specification also include:
1. The syntax and data types of the language.
2. Detailed explanation on CSS Selectors.
3. How you can assign values to properties.
4. The Cascade (the "C" in CSS)
5. The Box Model e.t.c



13. What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
➢ CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:
➢ Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML element
➢ Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section
➢ External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file



14. What is embedded style sheets?
➢ Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML
document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the
<style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your
document.



15. What are the external style sheets?
➢ An external style sheet is a separate file linked to an HTML web page. It
comes with a . css filename extension. All the styles that need to be used on a
website can be declared in the external style sheet.
16. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style
sheets?
Advantages
1) The style of a few documents can be controlled from the site by utilizing
them.
2) Multiple HTML elements can have numerous documents, where classes can
be made.
3) To assemble styles in complex circumstances, selector and grouping
strategies are utilized.
Disadvantages
1) The additional download is expected to import documents having style
information.
2) To render the documents, the outer template ought to be stacked.
3) Not practical for small style definitions.



17. What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
➢ CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to
style.
➢ We can divide CSS selectors into five categories.
➢ Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class.
➢ Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
➢ Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
➢ Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)



18. What are the media types allowed by CSS?
➢ continuous or paged.
➢ visual, audio, speech, or tactile.
➢ grid (for character grid devices), or bitmap.
➢ interactive (for devices that allow user interaction), or static (for those that
do not).
➢ all (includes all media types)


19. What is the rule set?
➢ A CSS rule set contains one or more selectors and one or more declarations.